instructions/data-schema.md, before:

# Data Schema Documentation

## Firebase Collections Schema

### 1. Users Collection
**Path:** `/users/{userId}`
```typescript
interface User {
  userId: string;           // Firebase Auth UID
  email: string;           // User's email address
  displayName: string;    // Optional display name
  interests?: string[];    // Array of interest categories (for Week 2)
  avatarURL?: string;    // Avatar URL
  createdAt: Timestamp;    // Account creation timestamp
}
```

### 2. Videos Collection
**Path:** `/videos/{videoId}`
```typescript
interface Video {
  id: string;         // Unique video identifier
  title: string;          // Video title
  thumbnailUrl?: string;   // URL to video thumbnail in Firebase Storage
  videoUrl: string;       // URL to video file in Firebase Storage
  category?: string[];       // Video category/theme
  likesCount: number;     // Total number of likes
  commentsCount: number;  // Total number of comments
  createdAt: Timestamp;   // Video creation timestamp
  userId: string;         // Reference to creator
  modelUsed?: string;     // Optional: AI model used to generate (for Week 2)
}
```

### 3. Comments Subcollection
**Path:** `/videos/{videoId}/comments/{commentId}`
```typescript
interface Comment {
  commentId: string;      // Unique comment identifier
  userId: string;         // User who made the comment
  text: string;          // Comment content
  timestamp: Timestamp;   // Comment creation time
}
```

### 4. Video Likes Collection
**Path:** `/videoLikes/{videoId}/userLikes/{userId}`
```typescript
interface VideoLike {
  userId: string;         // User who liked the video
  likedAt: Timestamp;    // When the like was created
}
```

### 5. Saved Videos Subcollection
**Path:** `/users/{userId}/savedVideos/{videoId}`
```typescript
interface SavedVideo {
  videoId: string;        // Reference to saved video
  savedAt: Timestamp;     // When the video was saved
}
```

### 6. Suggestions Collection (Week 2)
**Path:** `/suggestions/{suggestionId}`
```typescript
interface Suggestion {
  userId: string;         // User who made the suggestion
  text: string;          // Suggestion content
  status: 'pending' | 'approved' | 'rejected';  // Suggestion status
  createdAt: Timestamp;  // When suggestion was made
}
```

## Firebase Storage Structure

### Video Files
**Path:** `/videos/{videoId}.mp4`
- Stores the actual video content
- Referenced by `videoUrl` in Videos collection

### Thumbnail Files
**Path:** `/thumbnails/{videoId}.jpg`
- Stores video thumbnail images
- Referenced by `thumbnailUrl` in Videos collection

## Relationships

### User -> Videos
- One-to-many: A user can create multiple videos
- Tracked via `userId` in video documents

### User -> Likes
- Many-to-many: Users can like multiple videos, videos can be liked by multiple users
- Tracked in `videoLikes` collection

### User -> Saved Videos
- Many-to-many: Users can save multiple videos
- Tracked in `savedVideos` subcollection

### Video -> Comments
- One-to-many: A video can have multiple comments
- Tracked in `comments` subcollection

## Indexes Required

1. Videos Collection:
```
- createdAt DESC (for feed ordering)
- category, createdAt DESC (for category filtering)
```

2. Comments Subcollection:
```
- timestamp DESC (for comment ordering)
```

3. SavedVideos Subcollection:
```
- savedAt DESC (for saved videos list)
```

## Security Rules Considerations

```javascript
rules_version = '2';
service cloud.firestore {
  match /databases/{database}/documents {
    // Users can read their own data
    match /users/{userId} {
      allow read: if request.auth.uid == userId;
      allow write: if request.auth.uid == userId;
    }
    
    // Videos are publicly readable
    match /videos/{videoId} {
      allow read: if true;
      allow write: if request.auth != null;  // Authenticated users only
    }
    
    // Comments require authentication
    match /videos/{videoId}/comments/{commentId} {
      allow read: if true;
      allow write: if request.auth != null;
    }
    
    // Likes require authentication
    match /videoLikes/{videoId}/userLikes/{userId} {
      allow read: if true;
      allow write: if request.auth.uid == userId;
    }
  }
}
```

## Performance Considerations

1. Denormalization:
   - Store basic video metadata in savedVideos to avoid extra queries
   - Cache frequently accessed user data

2. Pagination:
   - Implement cursor-based pagination for video feed
   - Limit initial query size (recommended: 20 videos)


## Migration Strategy

1. Initial Setup (Week 1):
   - Create base collections
   - Set up indexes
   - Upload sample content

2. Week 2 Additions:
   - Add AI-related fields
   - Create suggestions collection
   - Expand user profiles with preferences

Commit message:

clarified data structure of comments subcollection

instructions/data-schema.md, after:

# Data Schema Documentation

## Firebase Collections Schema

### 1. Users Collection
**Path:** `/users/{userId}`
```typescript
interface User {
  userId: string;           // Firebase Auth UID
  email: string;           // User's email address
  displayName: string;    // Optional display name
  interests?: string[];    // Array of interest categories (for Week 2)
  avatarURL?: string;    // Avatar URL
  createdAt: Timestamp;    // Account creation timestamp
}
```

### 2. Videos Collection
**Path:** `/videos/{videoId}`
```typescript
interface Video {
  id: string;         // Unique video identifier
  title: string;          // Video title
  thumbnailUrl?: string;   // URL to video thumbnail in Firebase Storage
  videoUrl: string;       // URL to video file in Firebase Storage
  category?: string[];       // Video category/theme
  likesCount: number;     // Total number of likes
  commentsCount: number;  // Total number of comments
  createdAt: Timestamp;   // Video creation timestamp
  userId: string;         // Reference to creator
  modelUsed?: string;     // Optional: AI model used to generate (for Week 2)
}
```

### 3. Comments Subcollection
**Path:** `/videos/{videoId}/comments/{commentId}`
```typescript
interface Comment {
  commentId: string;      // Unique comment identifier
  userId: string;         // User who made the comment
  text: string;          // Comment content
  timestamp: Timestamp;   // Comment creation time
}
```

### 4. Video Likes Collection
**Path:** `/videoLikes/{videoId}/userLikes/{userId}`
```typescript
interface VideoLike {
  userId: string;         // User who liked the video
  likedAt: Timestamp;    // When the like was created
}
```

**Design Note:** While comments are stored as a subcollection under each video document (`/videos/{videoId}/comments/{commentId}`), likes are intentionally stored in a separate root collection with their own subcollection structure (`/videoLikes/{videoId}/userLikes/{userId}`). This design choice enables:
- Efficient querying of likes across all videos
- Separate security rules for likes management
- Better performance for high-traffic like operations
- Reduced contention on video documents

Both approaches (subcollections under videos vs. separate root collection) are valid Firestore patterns, and the choice depends on the specific access patterns and scalability requirements of the feature.

### 5. Saved Videos Subcollection
**Path:** `/users/{userId}/savedVideos/{videoId}`
```typescript
interface SavedVideo {
  videoId: string;        // Reference to saved video
  savedAt: Timestamp;     // When the video was saved
}
```

### 6. Suggestions Collection (Week 2)
**Path:** `/suggestions/{suggestionId}`
```typescript
interface Suggestion {
  userId: string;         // User who made the suggestion
  text: string;          // Suggestion content
  status: 'pending' | 'approved' | 'rejected';  // Suggestion status
  createdAt: Timestamp;  // When suggestion was made
}
```

## Firebase Storage Structure

### Video Files
**Path:** `/videos/{videoId}.mp4`
- Stores the actual video content
- Referenced by `videoUrl` in Videos collection

### Thumbnail Files
**Path:** `/thumbnails/{videoId}.jpg`
- Stores video thumbnail images
- Referenced by `thumbnailUrl` in Videos collection

## Relationships

### User -> Videos
- One-to-many: A user can create multiple videos
- Tracked via `userId` in video documents

### User -> Likes
- Many-to-many: Users can like multiple videos, videos can be liked by multiple users
- Tracked in `videoLikes` collection

### User -> Saved Videos
- Many-to-many: Users can save multiple videos
- Tracked in `savedVideos` subcollection

### Video -> Comments
- One-to-many: A video can have multiple comments
- Tracked in `comments` subcollection

## Indexes Required

1. Videos Collection:
```
- createdAt DESC (for feed ordering)
- category, createdAt DESC (for category filtering)
```

2. Comments Subcollection:
```
- timestamp DESC (for comment ordering)
```

3. SavedVideos Subcollection:
```
- savedAt DESC (for saved videos list)
```

## Security Rules Considerations

```javascript
rules_version = '2';
service cloud.firestore {
  match /databases/{database}/documents {
    // Users can read their own data
    match /users/{userId} {
      allow read: if request.auth.uid == userId;
      allow write: if request.auth.uid == userId;
    }
    
    // Videos are publicly readable
    match /videos/{videoId} {
      allow read: if true;
      allow write: if request.auth != null;  // Authenticated users only
    }
    
    // Comments require authentication
    match /videos/{videoId}/comments/{commentId} {
      allow read: if true;
      allow write: if request.auth != null;
    }
    
    // Likes require authentication
    match /videoLikes/{videoId}/userLikes/{userId} {
      allow read: if true;
      allow write: if request.auth.uid == userId;
    }
  }
}
```

## Performance Considerations

1. Denormalization:
   - Store basic video metadata in savedVideos to avoid extra queries
   - Cache frequently accessed user data

2. Pagination:
   - Implement cursor-based pagination for video feed
   - Limit initial query size (recommended: 20 videos)


## Migration Strategy

1. Initial Setup (Week 1):
   - Create base collections
   - Set up indexes
   - Upload sample content

2. Week 2 Additions:
   - Add AI-related fields
   - Create suggestions collection
   - Expand user profiles with preferences
